Well, we're movin' on up
Movin' on up
To the East Side
To a deluxe apartment
in the sky
Movin' on up
To the East Side
We finally got
a piece of the pie
Fish don't fry
in the kitchen
Beans don't burn
on the grill
Took a whole lot of tryin'
Just to get up that hill
Now we're up
in the big leagues
Gettin' our turn at bat
As long as we live
it's you and me, baby
There ain't nothing wrong
with that
Well, we're movin' on up
Movin' on up
To the East Side
To a deluxe apartment
in the sky
Movin' on up
To the East Side
We finally got
a piece of the pie
Good morning, Florence.
How are you this morning?
Oh, good morning,
Miss Jefferson.
I didn't hear you come in
last night. It must have
been late.
Yeah, about three.
Clarence took me out.
Again? Looks like it's
getting serious.
I'll bet he's ready to pop
the question.
He already did.
He did? Oh, Florence,
what did you say?
"No" and "Get your hand
off my knee."
You know, I went out
with a guy like that
once,
always grabbing me and
pawing at me.
How'd you stop him?
I married him.
Florence, what the devil's
the matter with you?
How come you didn't wake
me up on time?
'Cause I overslept myself.
I had a date last night.
With who?
The moon wasn't even full.
Where's my breakfast?
You're drinking it.
Look, you don't wake me up
on time, you don't get
my breakfast.
What kind of maid are you?
Underpaid.
I don't know how you can
think about breakfast after
all we ate last night.
Where'd you go?
To a fund raising dinner
for the new wing on
Mercy Hospital.
All the best people in
town were there.
How come they let you in?
'Cause we didn't bring you.
Ha, ha, ha, ha...
It was real fancy, Florence.
A hundred dollars a plate.
Hmm... For a hundred bucks,
I'd still be eating.
Well, the money did go
to a good cause.
It went for a great cause.
Getting my name in the
society column of the
East Side Chronicle.
Ha! Hey, I wonder if it
came yet?
I still don't understand
what's so important about
seeing your name
in the society column.
Publicity, Weezy.
Look, if my name's in here,
that means everybody
knows George Jefferson.
I should think you'd wanna
keep that a secret.
Hey, here's the story.
"New Wing, Mercy Hospital.
"Mister and Mrs. Forbes,
Doctor Scott
Go-Lay-Me-Down...
"Mrs. Pembrooke, Senator
Carmichael..."
Hey, look at that!
You found my name?
No. The supermarket's having a
half-price sale on nuts.
This is a lousy paper.
Now, Weezy, now you know
we've been going to
those fundraiser dinners
for weeks, and they ain't
mentioned my name once!
They didn't mention me either.
That's 'cause you're black.
And what are you?
I'm out two hundred bucks
'cause they bleed me white.
Good morning, everyone.
Oh, hi, Tom. Come on in.
Here's the casserole dish we
borrowed. Helen thought you
might need it for dinner.
Oh, thank you, Tom.
Tell Helen that was very
thoughtful of her.
I will. And thanks.
Why waste time?
Go tell her now.
You have to excuse George.
He made a terrible
mistake this morning.
Oh? What did he do?
He got up.
Well, I have to be going
anyway. I'm picking up my
shotgun this morning.
Shotgun?
Oh, so Helen's finally
gonna get it, huh?
No, George, it's for my
new hobby. Skeet shooting.
Skeet shooting?
What's a skeet?
Don't you know nothing, Weezy?
A skeet is a little bird with
a long tail.
No, it isn't, George.
It's a clay disk you
use in trap shooting.
There are no birds.
Oh, I get it. You just
imagine you got a bird.
Right.
Well, why don't you just
imagine you got a gun?
You know, bang! I got one!
I'll explain the whole thing
later when I get the gun.
Seems kind of silly, grown
men standing around
shooting at pieces of clay.
I wouldn't mind doing it,
if the skeet had a picture of
that news editor's face on it.
Oh, forget about that.
It's not important.
Oh, yes, it is important,
too!
Look, if I ain't good
enough to be in their paper,
then they ain't good
enough for my advertising.
I'm calling the editor.
Oh, try and stay calm,
George.
Don't worry about it,
Weezy. I'm always calm...
Hello? This is George
Jefferson calling. Who's this?
I don't wanna speak to you.
I want the editor...
Look, you tell him
he's got five seconds
to get on this phone!
What's he doing?
Keeping calm.
Hello, Mr. Hearst,
you're damn right
something's wrong.
How come my name don't
never appear in your column?
The society column!.
Uh-huh... Oh, you ain't got
enough room for everybody,
huh? Okay.
Well, in that case, you ain't
got enough room for my
advertisement.
Right... Say what? Oh, yeah?
Oh, good. Well, thanks. Bye.
What did he say?
They're gonna send a
reporter over to talk to me.
Uh, Florence, will you
put this in the kitchen,
please?
Did you hear the bell?
Yeah. Didn't you?
Answer the door!
George, don't get so excited.
The reporter couldn't
make it here that fast.
Oh, hello, Florence.
Ah, that's mental telepathy.
No, it's a casserole dish.
But how did you know
I was coming over to
borrow a casserole dish?
Just a wild guess.
Oh no, it's got to be
telepathy.
My Aunt Agatha was gifted
like that. She was called in
once by Scotland Yard.
Oh, they wanted her to
help solve a crime?
Ah, no. They wanted her
for walking nude through
Picadilly Circus.
All your family belongs
in a circus.
Thank you.
But why do you want
the casserole dish,
Mr. Bentley?
Oh, I'm fixing dinner for
Valery this evening.
Another new girl?
Oh, no, you don't understand.
Ah, here's Valery now.
Oh, did you find her
in the circus, too?
No, Mr. J., in Russia,
Valery is a man's name.
Uh, Valery Kamikov,
Mr. and Mrs. George
Jefferson.
BOTH: Hi.
How do you do? I am pleased
to meet you.
Hey, you speak English
real good.
So do you.
You see,
when I was working at
the Embassy in Moscow,
Valery showed me the town.
He took me to all
the fun places.
Lenin's Tomb, Stalin's Tomb...
Yeah, and now Harry is
returning the favor.
Oh, yeah. And where you
gonna take him?
Woodlawn Cemetery?
No, Valery's here with a
visiting trade delegation,
and I'm getting him into
the U.N. tomorrow to hear
President Carter's speech.
Oh, President Carter's
speaking here tomorrow?
Look, Weezy, he's always
speaking someplace.
That way he don't have to
do nothing.
Will you be translating his
speech, Mr. Bentley?
Uh, yes.
And that can be a problem
with President Carter.
Why?
Well, I don't know
how to translate
'y'all' into Russian.
You like President Carter?
Oh, yes. He's just like
one of us.
Oh...
Oh, Weezy, he ain't like
one of us.
I mean he doesn't put
on airs. He even carries
his own luggage.
Oh, that's true. He's a
man of the people.
When he visited
Massachusetts,
he stayed overnight at the
home of a beer distributor.
His brother
Billy must have made
those reservations.
Well, We've got to
be going.
Do svidanya
Mr. and Mrs. Jefferson.
And da svidan
you too, Mr. Valery.
Da svidan you too!
Bentley, wait!
Hey, look, is this for real
about the President staying
at ordinary people's homes?
Oh, yes. It was on television
and in the newspapers.
He does it all the
time. He likes to get
to meet the people.
Yeah? And I guess all
those people get great
publicity, right?
Oh, yes. You know, I
was in the newspaper once.
Weezy, I just got a
great idea.
Look, since Carter's gonna
be in town tomorrow,
let's ask him to stay
here overnight.
What?
I'm gonna call the
President and ask him to stay
here overnight.
What?
Look, Weezy, can you think of
a better way to get publicity?
That's crazy!
Hello, operator, I'd like to
place a long distance
phone call
to the White House, please.
Yes, the one in Washington.
Florence!
George, have you
lost your mind?
The President will never
stay here!
A dry cleaner is just as good
as a beer distributor any day.
What? Oh, yeah, yeah, I'll
hold. Hey, look, would you
talk to my secretary, please?
Here.
I ain't no secretary.
You ain't no maid, neither.
Here.
Who am I calling?
The White House.
The White House?
You wasting your time, child.
They do their own cleaning.
Look, just tell them it's
Mr. Jefferson calling.
George, you can't be serious.
What are you talking about?
Of course I'm serious.
This is a great move.
Hello. Is this the White
House?...
It is the White House!
I'm talking
to the White House.
I'm talkin' to
the White House, y'all!
See?
Look. Would you just tell
them who I am!
Hello...
I are calling for
Mr. Jefferson.
What?
They said Jefferson ain't
President no more.
Give me that! Move! Damn!
Hello? Hello? This is
George Jefferson calling.
I'd like to speak
to Jimmy, please.
What do you mean,
'Jimmy who?'
Jimmy President!
What?
No, I don't wanna talk to you.
This is personal between
Jimmy and me.
Say what?
He don't wanna talk?
Look here, you tell him if he
don't talk to me,
I'll get him where it hurts.
I just won't vote for
him next time.
You didn't vote for him
last time.
Look, are you gonna put
me through or not?
Okay,
you tell your boss that
if that's the way he feels
about people, that this
country would be
better off without him!
George!
Look, Weezy, don't worry
about it. This is the way you
handle these people.
That's the only language
they understand.
What? Oh, you are?
Oh, oh,
that's more like it, sister.
Yeah, I'll be here.
George Jefferson,
New York City, 555-3197.
Thank you.
What happened?
What did they say?
Ah-ha! I did it, Weezy!
You know, they asked me
if I was gonna be here.
That means he's gonna
be calling me back.
No jiving?
President Carter really
might stay here?
Yeah, that's right.
Oh, I've gotta tell Tom
and Helen.
Hold it, hold it, hold
it, look, if the President
wants to see zebras,
he can go to the zoo.
We better get this place
straightened up.
You're right. I don't want
him telling Rosalynn I
keep a messy house.
Oh, yeah, you better get
a cleaning lady in here,
Weez.
I just cleaned yesterday.
Rearranging the dust
ain't cleaning.
Get a caterer, too.
Oh, I don't know, George.
I read the President likes
plain food.
I can cook plain food.
Yeah, plain awful.
Well, if I can't clean,
and I can't cook,
I guess
I'm just in the way
around here, huh?
I've been telling you that
for two years now.
That's enough, George!
You said it, Miss Jefferson.
Florence, where are you going?
Out! I'm taking the rest of
the day off!
How will we know
the difference?
I sure will be glad when the
President gets here,
Mr. Jefferson.
It'll make history.
You're damn right it will.
It'll be the first time
the Democratic donkey stayed
with a Republican jackass.
George, you should be
ashamed of yourself.
You insulted her.
Don't worry about it,
Weezy, she'll get over it.
Well, when she comes back,
you're going to apologize.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, look, hey,
I got a lot of good ideas
to give the President.
Oh, really? Like what?
Well, you know, things that
are gonna help the country.
Like peace in the Middle East,
a job for everybody,
tax cuts for dry cleaners.
George, you're a real patriot.
I try my best.
Yeah?
Morning, sir. Agents Allen
and Neil, Secret Service.
Secret Service?
Are you George Jefferson?
Yeah, that's right.
Then you're the man we want.
Me? For what?
For threatening the President
of the United States.
Sit down, Mr. Jefferson,
we have several questions
we wanna ask you.
What do you mean I
threatened the President
of the United States?
What kind of a nut do
you think I am?
If you answer the questions,
maybe we'll find out.
Who are you calling a nut?
It'll be a lot easier
on you, Mr. Jefferson, if
you just cooperate.
Look, it'll be a lot
easier on me if you
just leave.
Uh, now, wait a minute.
There must be some
mistake here.
Aren't you the George
Jefferson who called the White
House this morning?
No. My maid did.
I see.
And why did you
make the call?
I'm not the maid.
I'm his wife.
Oh, where's the maid?
She went out.
What's her name?
Florence Johnston.
Can you describe her?
Yeah. Just picture Dracula
with earrings.
Mr. Jefferson, this is
serious business.
The White House notified our
field office while you were
still on the phone.
Did you say,
referring to the President,
"I'll get him where it hurts"?
Oh, yeah...
"And this country would be
better off without him?"
My husband said those things,
but he didn't mean any harm.
Right, look, I wasn't
threatening the President,
I was threatening
the operator.
I mean, I wasn't threatening
nobody. Look, would you guys
just leave me alone?
As soon as we get
some answers.
Okay, ask me some questions.
Mr. Jefferson, do you have
the feeling that the
government
has done something to you?
Of course not. The government
don't do nothing for nobody.
Mr. Jefferson, what
we're trying to determine is,
do you feel you're getting
a raw deal somehow?
I mean, you are black.
Man, these guys don't
miss a thing, huh?
Uh, George, I don't think
you should be playing games
with them.
Then tell them to get out of
here! I got enough problems
without worrying about them!
Shoot.
Say, Mr. Jefferson,
do little things often make
you mad?
Oh, sure. You know,
I lose my temper every once
in a while.
Everybody does.
Uh-huh. Of course, some days
are worse than others.
Yeah, that's right. You know,
some days you have
to talk to idiots morning,
noon, and night.
Now that's the worst part.
Yeah, then by the end
of the day, you're so
mad you wanna,
you wanna get rid
of all of them!
Yeah, that's right! Oh, you
get that way, too, huh?
No, never.
Neither do I. Hey, don't
write that down.
Oh, relax, George.
How can I relax,
with these two goons
hanging around here?
They shouldn't even be
in here. This is my house.
Look, I'm a taxpayer and
I'm a citizen.
Hey, wait a minute. I pay
your salary, right?
That's right, sir.
Well, you're fired!
I should have known
that phone call was
gonna be trouble.
Mr. Jefferson, we're
just doing our job. Before
the President goes anywhere,
the Service checks its list on
anyone in the area who
might be a threat.
And thanks to your phone
call, you made the list.
Well, congratulations, George.
You finally got your name
mentioned somewhere.
So, I hope you understand
we can't take any chances.
We have to check
every nut in the area.
He said it again! He
called me a nut! Look, what
does it take to make
you guys listen, huh?
Believe me, we're listening to
everything you say.
I tell you, I'm not a nut! I'm
not a nut! I'm not a nut!
Weezy,tell these
guys I ain't crazy!
I'm gonna have you jailed
for this.
Look, the only reason George
made that call was to get the
President to stay here.
It was just a publicity
gimmick for his cleaners.
You mean you don't have
anything against President
Carter?
No, I like him.
But what do I know? I
like Nixon, too.
Well, we'd like to believe
you, but it would help
if the maid was here
to back up your story.
If there is a maid.
Look, I didn't say she
was a good maid.
Normally, she'd be here
right now, wouldn't she,
George?
If she hadn't had
an argument with someone.
Uh, see that's got to
be Florence now. Now you're
gonna see what a big
mistake you made. I'll tell
you, I'm the most red,
white and blue apple pie
American you ever
seen in your entire life.
Jefferson!
Not now, Valery.
I just came from a...
Oh, excuse me. I didn't know
you had guests.
And who are you?
Valery Kamikov,
Soviet Union.
Andrew Neil, Secret Service.
George Jefferson, dead duck.
The guy's a Commie.
I think we really got
something this time.
Wait a minute. Hold it,
Jack. Look, before you start
thinking of something crazy,
I never saw him before today.
I don't even know him!
Oh, sure you do.
Don't you remember?
I was here before.
I had left my gloves. See?
Yeah, that's right. He just
came here to leave his gloves.
No, no, no, don't you
remember? We talked about
President Carter.
Yeah. And I said I liked
President Carter, right?
No, you didn't.
He didn't like President
Carter?
His wife did, I think.
Oh, oh, believe me, this
is all a misunderstanding.
Valery, will you please tell
them what you are doing
in New York?
And get to the point, huh?
Just a minute. Just a
minute!
I am good Soviet citizen.
I show you!
Frisk him!
What are you doing?
What is this? What is this?
Oh, excuse me.
Have you seen my friend?
Oh, Valery, there you are.
Oh, Harry, thank goodness.
Harry.
Whoareyou?
I'm Harry Bentley. I live
next door. I can vouch
for Mr. Kamikov.
Never mind him! Vouch for
me! These guys are Secret
Service agents.
They think I threatened
the President.
Oh, my goodness.
Mr. J, why did you do that?
I didn't do it, Bentley!
You say you know this Russian?
Oh, very well. In fact, we
were on our way to the U.N.
to reserve him a good seat,
so he can't possibly
miss the President tomorrow.
That's it. Frisk him.
Oh, please... Oh, please...
Wait! You're making a big
mistake. Mr. Bentley
is a translator at the U.N.
Yes, here's my certification.
I have top security clearance.
So does Mr. Kamikov.
It's true, it's true. I'm with
Russian trade delegation.
Look at this...
That's easy enough
to check out.
Hey look, I ain't talking
no more till I! talk
to my lawyer
We're all
being railroaded!
Don't worry.
You'll get a fair trial.
Yeah. Then the firing squad.
Is typical
imperialist tactics.
Oh...
Will you please
stop talking like that?
We're all innocent.
We have nothing to
worry about.
Do we?
We'll soon find out.
Okay, thanks. That's
what I wanted to know.
These guys check out.
They're all right.
GEORGE: Hey, great.
Not you. Them.
Good day, gentlemen.
Do svidanya.
Hey, did you see that?
He let the white guys go.
Even the red one.
You know, I think the
guy's probably okay.
I'd still like to talk
to that maid.
Look, he's right.
You're wasting your time
here, man.
I'm the most nonviolent
person you ever wanna meet.
All right, George,
here's the gun!
Oh, oh, don't hurt me.
You can have anything
you want.
Take my wallet, my credit
cards. I'll write you
a check.
Take it easy, we're the
Secret Service.
Secret Service?
What did you do, George?
Threaten the President?
Shut up, fool!
Who are you?
My name is Thomas H.
Willis. I, I live upstairs.
That's only a skeet gun.
Well, I think we should
take them both downtown.
Oh... I forgot my
pocketbook. I won't be
starting no fighting.
Hey, there's Florence!
Come back. C'mere, I need
you. This is my maid.
Is that true?
You the maid?
I'm anybody you want
me to be.
You don't have to be
scared, Florence. These men
are government agents.
They just wanna find out
why George called the
President this morning.
That's right, miss. And unless
you can verify his story,
we're gonna have to take him
down for questioning.
You mean it's up to me whether
they take you in or not?
Yeah!
Hey look, would you
just tell them why I made
that call?
You want me to get
you off the hook?
The same me
who got thrown out of
here for being in the way?
Florence...
What first made you
suspicious of him?
Was it them
little beady eyes?
Will you just tell them?
I'm trying to remember,
Mr. Jefferson. But I need
something to jog my memory.
Maybe if I had a sandwich.
What? Hey, look, the
sandwich can wait!
Well, your apology can't.
Okay, I'm sorry, Florence.
I'm a good maid.
You're a good maid.
And a good cook.
And I get a 20
dollar raise.
No way.
Okay, I'll visit you
every month.
Hey, wait, wait, wait. Hold
it, hold it. I'll make it ten.
Why thank you,
Mr. Jefferson.
Mr. Jefferson only
made that phone call
'cause he wanted the
President to stay here.
He thought it would be
good advertising for
his business.
It checks out all right.
See? I told you.
Yes?
I'm Dean. East Side Chronicle.
My editor sent me over to talk
to a Mr. Jefferson.
Oh, yeah, that's me.
Hey, it's about time.
Come on in here.
This was to be a private
interview. I didn't realize
there'd be a party going on.
Believe me, this is
no party. These are
Secret Service men.
Secret Service?
Why are you guys here?
Oh, it's silly, really.
They thought George
threatened the President.
What are you writing that for?
I'm a reporter.
So what? I'm a dry cleaner.
You don't see me
cleaning your clothes, do you?
Hey, where are you going?
To get my camera.
You're gonna do better
than the society page,
Mr. Jefferson.
I'm gonna put you
on the front page.
What?
"Local Dry Cleaner Threatens
President". Wow!
Hey, wait a minute. You
can't print that. Hey!
If I see my name in
your paper, I'll kill you!...
Joking, just joking.
LOUISE: The Jeffersons
was videotaped in front
of a studio audience.